California • New York | Anthem Blue Cross | Medicare Advantage
Breast Cancer Screening (BCS-E)
2025
HEDIS® is a widely used set of performance measures
developed and maintained by the National Committee
for Quality Assurance (NCQA). These are used to drive Best practices:
improvement efforts surrounding best practices. • Educate female patients about the
importance of breast cancer screening
The HEDIS quality measures reported using the Electronic
at least every other year.
Clinical Data Systems (ECDS) inspire innovative use of
electronic clinical data to document high-quality patient • Provide a list of mammography testing
care, demonstrating commitment to evidence-based facilities, mobile mammography units,
practices. Organizations that report HEDIS using ECDS and assist in making appointments.
encourage the electronic exchange of the information • Document the date of the last
needed to provide high-quality services, ensuring that the screening mammogram at the annual
information reaches the right people at the right time. visit.
• Document bilateral or unilateral
HEDIS Measure
mastectomies.
This measure looks at patients 50 to 74 years old who were • Scan the mammography report into the
recommended for routine breast cancer screening and had medical record.
a mammogram to screen for breast cancer from October 1,
• The best practice is to contact patients
two years before the measurement period, through the end
by phone, email, text, and email.
of the measurement period.
• Display posters in the waiting and
Numerator examination rooms to encourage
One or more mammograms any time on or between women to ask about or get a
October 1, two years before the measurement period, and mammogram. Have educational
the end of the measurement period materials readily available.
• Add ticklers to electronic medical
Denominator
records (EMR) for advanced illness
Members 52 to 74 years old by the end of the measurement and frailty exclusions.
period who were recommended for routine breast cancer
screening and meet the criteria for participation
HEDIS® is a registered trademark of the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA).
Exclusions
• Patients who had a bilateral mastectomy or both • Patients who encountered palliative care at any
right and left unilateral mastectomies at any time time during the measurement year. Do not include
during the patient’s history through the end of the laboratory claims (claims with POS code 81).
measurement period are excluded. Any of the
• Patients who use hospice services or elect
following meet the criteria for bilateral mastectomy:
to use a hospice benefit any time during the
– Bilateral mastectomy measurement year
– Unilateral mastectomy with a bilateral modifier • Patients who die during the measurement year
– Unilateral mastectomy found in clinical data with
Closing the gap
a bilateral qualifier value
– History of bilateral mastectomy Documentation needed:
• Patients who had gender-affirming chest surgery • A record of one or more mammograms
with a diagnosis of gender dysphoria at any time performed any time on or between October 1,
during the patient’s history through the end of the 2023, and December 31, 2025
measurement period are excluded. • Documentation in provider notes and/or medical
• Medicare members 66 years and older by the end history of mammogram with the date performed
of the measurement period who meet either of the
CPT®: 77061, 77062, 77063, 77065, 77066, 77067
following are excluded:
– Those enrolled in an Institutional SNP (I-SNP) at Note: Two patient identifiers are required.
any time during the measurement period
Let’s work together
– Those living long-term in an institution (LTI)
at any time during the measurement period, The measure is closed by way of the following:
as identified by the LTI flag in the monthly
• Claims
membership detail data file. Use the run date of
the file to determine if a member had an LTI flag • CCDA
during the measurement period. • SFTP/Flat files
• Patients 66 years and older as of December 31 of • Cotiviti
the measurement year (all product lines) with frailty
Please visit My Diverse Patients for additional
and advanced illness. Patients must meet both
information about eLearning experiences on
frailty and advanced illness criteria to be excluded.
provider cultural competency and health equity.
• Patients receiving palliative care at any time during
the measurement year
https://anthem.com/provider
Anthem Blue Cross is the trade name of: In California: Blue Cross of California and Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc. Anthem BC Health Insurance Company is the trade name of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
Blue Cross of California, Blue Cross of California Partnership Plan, Inc., Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, and Anthem BC Health Insurance Company are independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. In
11 northeastern counties of New York: Anthem HealthChoice Assurance, Inc. and Anthem HealthChoice HMO, Inc. In these same counties, Anthem Blue Cross Retiree Solutions is the trade name of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
Independent licensees of the Blue Cross Association. Anthem is a registered trademark of Anthem Insurance Companies, Inc.
MULTI-BC-CR-075425-24-CPN74734